---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "SQL"
category: database
---
# Queries

### **% Wildcard**

The `%` wildcard can be used in a `LIKE` operator pattern to match **zero or more unspecified character(s)**. The given query will match any movie that begins with `The`, followed by zero or more of any characters.

```sql
SELECT name
FROM movies
WHERE name LIKE 'The%';
```

### **_ Wildcard**

The `_` wildcard can be used in a `LIKE` operator pattern to match **any single unspecified character.** The given query will match any movie which begins with a single character, followed by `ove`.

```sql
SELECT name
FROM movies
WHERE name LIKE '_ove';
```

<br>

# Multiple Tables

### **Inner Join**

The `JOIN` clause allows for the return of results from more than one table by joining them together with other results based on common column values specified using an `ON` clause. `INNER JOIN` is the default `JOIN` and it will **only return results matching the condition** specified by `ON`.

```sql
SELECT * 
FROM books
JOIN authors
  ON books.author_id = authors.id;
```

### **Outer Join**

An outer join will combine rows from different tables even if the **join condition is not met.** In a `LEFT JOIN`, every row in the *left* table is returned in the result set, and if the join condition is not met, then `NULL` values are used to fill in the columns from the *right* table.

```sql
SELECT column_name(s)
FROM table1
LEFT JOIN table2
  ON table1.column_name = table2.column_name;
```

### **CROSS JOIN Clause**

The `CROSS JOIN` clause is used to **combine each row from one table with each row from another** in the result set. This `JOIN` is helpful for creating **all possible combinations** for the records (rows) in two tables.

The given query will select the `shirt_color` and `pants_color` columns from the result set, which will contain all combinations of combining the rows in the `shirts` and `pants` tables. If there are 3 different shirt colors in the `shirts` table and 5 different pants colors in the `pants` table then the result set will contain 3 x 5 = 15 rows.

```sql
SELECT shirts.shirt_color,
   pants.pants_color
FROM shirts
CROSS JOIN pants;
```

### **UNION Clause**

The `UNION` clause is used to **combine results** that appear from **multiple `SELECT` statements** and filter duplicates.

For example, given a `first_names` table with a column `name` containing rows of data “James” and “Hermione”, and a `last_names` table with a column `name` containing rows of data “James”, “Hermione” and “Cassidy”, the result of this query would contain three `name`s: “Cassidy”, “James”, and “Hermione”.

```sql
SELECT name
FROM first_names
UNION
SELECT name
FROM last_names
```

### **WITH Clause**

The `WITH` clause **stores the result of a query** in a temporary table (`temporary_movies`) using an alias.

Multiple temporary tables can be defined with one instance of the `WITH` keyword.

```sql
WITH temporary_movies AS (
   SELECT *
   FROM movies
)
SELECT *
FROM temporary_movies
WHERE year BETWEEN 2000 AND 2020;
```