---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "Process"
category: os
---

- **Text area**: stores **code** executed by the processor.
- **Data area**: stores variables and **dynamically allocated memory** used during process execution.
- **Stack area**: stores **instructions** and **local variables** called by active procedures.

## State

- **Execution** state -> Blocking state
    
    It is often caused by waiting for **resource allocation** such as main memory, or waiting for manual intervention.
    
- **Blocking** state -> Ready state
    
    The waiting condition has been met, and it only needs to be **assigned to the processor** to run.
    
- Execution state -> Ready state
    
    The running process is not for its own reasons, but for external reasons to **give up the processor**. For example, time slices are used up, or there are higher-priority processes to seize the processor.
    
- **Ready** state -> Execution state
    
    The system selects a process in the ready queue to **occupy the processor**.
    

## Context Switch

> A process of **saving** the context of one process and **loading** the context of another process. Switch a process from **one state to another** i.e., running ⇒ ready.
> 

## Zombie Process

Referred to as a defunct(不复存在) process:

- A process that is **terminated or completed**
- But the whole process control block is **not cleaned up** from the main memory
- It still has an **entry** in the process table to **report** to its parent process
- It does not consume any of the resources and is dead, but it still exists and shows that **resources are held** by process and are not free.

## C**ascading Termination**

> A process termination in which if the **parent** process is **exiting or terminating**, then the **children** process will also get **terminated**.
>