---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "HTTP"
category: network
---

- **Connection-Less**
    
    Only **one request** per one connection
    
- **StateLess**
    
    The protocol has **no memory** of transaction, and the server does **not know what state** the **client** is.
    
    **Two ways to maintain HTTP connection:**
    
    1. **Cookies** record the status on the **client**, such as the login status. 
    2. **Session** records the status on the **server**.
    
    |  | Cookie | Session |
    | --- | --- | --- |
    | Definition | Cookies are client-side files that are stored on a local computer and contain user information. | Sessions are server-side files that store user information. |
    | Expiry | Cookies expire after the user specified lifetime. | The session ends when the user closes the browser or logs out of the program. |
    | Data storage | It can only store a limited amount of data. | It is able to store an unlimited amount of information. |
    | Function | It is not necessary for us to execute a function in order to get cookies going because they are stored on the local computer. | Utilizing the session start() method is required before we can begin the session. |
    | Data Format | Cookies are used to store information in a text file. | The data is saved in an encrypted format during sessions. |


## Status Code

1. **Informational**
    
    100 - Continue
    
2. **Success**
    
    200 - OK
    
    201 - Created
    
    204 - No Content
    
3. **Redirection**
    
    301 - Moved Permanently
    
    304 - Not Modified
    
4. **Client Error**
    
    400 - Bad Request
    
    401 - Unauthorized
    
    403 - Forbidden
    
    404 - Not Found
    
5. **Server Error**
    
    500 - Internal Server Error
    
    502 - Bad Gateway
    

## HTTP Request Methods

- `GET` **requests** the specified page information.
- `POST` **submits** data (such as submitting forms or uploading files). The data is included in the request **body**.
- `PUT` **replaces** the content of the specified document.
- `DELETE` **deletes** the specified page.

### GET VS POST

- `GET` is used to **retrieve** remote data and `POST` is used to **insert/update** remote data.
- `GET` encodes parameters in **url** (not safe) and `POST` includes data in **body**.
- `GET` sends **once**, `POST` sends **header** first (return 100) and sends real data (return 200).

## Persistent Connection

- In non-Keep-Alive mode, for each request/response, customer and the server need to create a **new connection** and **disconnect** immediately **after completion**.
- In Keep-Alive mode, the Keep-Alive function **keeps the connection** between the client and the server. When there is a follow-up request to the server, the Keep-Alive function **avoids establishing** or re-establishing the connection.

## Breakpoint Continuation

Use HTTP header `Range` and `Content-Range`:

1. The client downloaded a **1024K** file, of which **512K** has been downloaded.
2. The network is interrupted, and the client requests to continue. The fragment needs to be continued declared in the HTTP header: `Range:bytes=512000-`, which informs the server to transfer files from the **512K location** of the file.
3. The server receives a breakpoint continuation request, starts from the 512K position of the file, and adds it to the HTTP header: `Content-Range:bytes 512000-/1024000`, and the HTTP status code returned by the server should be **206**.