---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "Activity"
category: android
---
## LifeCycle

### 4 states

- `Running`
    
    Activity is in **foreground** (on top of the task stack).
    
- `Paused`
    
    Activity **loses focus** but still visible to users (covered Activity can be transparent or not completely covered).
    
- `Stopped`
    
    Activity is **invisible** and completely covered by another activity.
    
- `Destroyed`
    
    Activity is **finishing** or being destroyed by system.
    

## LaunchMode

### Task

> A collection of activities that users interact with when performing a certain job. The first activity instance is called **root** of the task.
> 

### Back Stack

> Activities are arranged with the order in which each activity is opened.
> 

### 4 launch modes

- **standard**
    
    Default mode. Creates a **new instance** of an activity in the task from which it was started.
    
    **Example**:
    
    B has “launch mode = standard”.
    
    - Before launch B
    A -> B -> C -> D
    - After launch B
    A -> B -> C -> D -> B
- **singleTop**
    
    If an instance of activity **already exists** at the **top** of the current task, a new instance will not be created and Android system will route the intent information through `onNewIntent()`. 
    
    If an instance is not present on top of task then new instance will be created.
    
    **Example**:
    
    D has “launch mode = singleTop”.
    
    - Before launch D again
    A -> B -> C -> D
    - After launch D again
    A -> B -> C -> D (Here old instance gets called and intent data route through `onNewIntent()` callback)
- **singleTask**
    
    A new task will always be created and a new instance will be pushed to the task as the root one. 
    
    If an instance of activity **exists** on the separate task, a new instance will **not be created** and Android system routes the intent information through `onNewIntent()` method.
    
    **Example**:
    
    B has “launch mode = singleTask”.
    
    - Before launch B again
    A -> B -> C -> D
    - After launch B again
    A -> B (Here old instance gets called and intent data route through `onNewIntent()` callback)
        
        > Also notice that C and D activities get destroyed here.
        > 
- **singleInstance**
    
    It is similar to singleTask except that **no other activities** will be created in the same task. Any other activity started from here will create in a new task.
    
    **Example**:
    
    D has “launch mode = singleInstance”.
    
    - Before launch D
        
        A -> B -> C
        
    - After launch D
        
        Task1 — A -> B -> C
        
        Task2 — D (here D will be in different task)
        
    - Now if you continue this and start E and D then Stack will look like:
        
        Task1 — A -> B -> C -> E
        
        Task2 — D