---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "Lock"
category: os
---

- **Mutual exclusion** lock
    
    Only one thread can access the locked data at a time.
    
- **Spin** lock
    
    If the spin lock has been maintained by another execution unit, the caller **keeps waiting** until the holder of the spin lock released the lock.
    
- **Read-write** lock
    
    Divide visitors into **readers** and **writers**. Readers only read and access shared resources, while writers write shared resources. The writer is exclusive. A read-write lock can only have **one writer** **or** **multiple readers** at the same time, but it **cannot have both** readers and writers.
    
- **Blocking** lock
    
    Change the running state of threads .The thread enter the **blocking state** to wait until the **corresponding signal** (wake up, time) is obtained and it can enter the **ready state**. All threads in the ready state enter the running state through competition.
    
- **Fair** lock
    
    Check whether there are threads **waiting in line before** locking and give **priority** to threads waiting in line. first come, first served.
    
- **Unfair** lock
    
    Dob’t consider the queue waiting problem. Try to get the lock directly, and go to **end of the queue** if it can't get the lock. 
    

## DeadLock

1. **Mutual Exclusion**
    
    > A resource can be held by one process at a time.
    > 
2. **Hold and Wait**
    
    > A process holds resources and requests resources held by other processes.
    > 
3. **No Preemption**
    
    > A resource held by one process can’t be preempted by another process.
    > 
4. **Circular Wait**
    
    > Every process is waiting for other processes to release resources.
    > 

```java
public class Deadlock {
    public static String str1 = "str1";
    public static String str2 = "str2";

    public static void main(String[] args){
        Thread a = new Thread(() -> {
            synchronized(Deadlock.str1){
                System.out.println(Thread.currentThread().getName()+"lock str1");
                Thread.sleep(1000);
                synchronized(Deadlock.str2){
                    System.out.println(Thread.currentThread().getName()+"lock str2");
                }
           }
        });

        Thread b = new Thread(() -> {
            synchronized(Deadlock.str2){
                System.out.println(Thread.currentThread().getName()+"lock str2");
                Thread.sleep(1000);
                synchronized(Deadlock.str1){
                    System.out.println(Thread.currentThread().getName()+"lock str1");
                }
           }
        });

        a.start();
        b.start();
    }
}
```

## Resolve DeadLock

### Prevent

1. **Static Allocation Strategy**
    
    Break Hold and Wait: A process must apply for all the resources it needs before execution.
    
2. **Hierarchical Allocation Strategy**
    
    Break Circular Wait: All resources are divided into multiple levels. After a process gets a resource, it can only **apply for the next higher level** of resources. When a process wants to release a resource at a certain level, it must **first release** the resources occupied by the **higher level**.
    

### Avoid

Dijkstra’s **Banker algorithm**:

When a process applies for the use of resources, the banker algorithm **first tests** and assigns the process resources, and then determines whether the system is in a **safe state** after allocation. If it is not safe, the allocation is invalid, so that the process will continue to wait. If it can enter a safe state, it will allocate resources to the process.

### Detection

**Process-Resource Allocation Graph**:

1. If there is **no loop**, there is **no deadlock** in the system at this time.
2. If there is **a loop** and there is only **one resource per resource class**, **a deadlock** has occurred.
3. If there is **a loop** and the resource class owns **multiple resources**, the system **may not** have a deadlock at this time.
    

### Resolve

1. Immediately end the execution of all processes and **restart the operating system**.
2. **Undo all processes** involved in deadlock and continue to run after unlocking deadlock.
3. **Undo processes** involved in deadlocks **one by one**, and recycle their resources until the deadlock is removed.
4. **Seize(抢占) resources**.