---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "Box Model"
category: css
---

# CSS Box Model

> Describe the rectangular boxes that are generated for elements in the document tree.
> 

Responsible for calculating:

- How much **space** a block element takes up.
- Whether or not borders and/or margins **overlap**, or **collapse**.
- A box’s **dimensions**(尺寸).


The box has the following rules:

- The dimensions of a block element are calculated by `width`, `height`, `padding`, `border` and `margin`.
- If no `height` is specified, a block element will be as high as the content it contains, plus `padding`.
- If no `width` is specified, a non-floated block element will expand to fit the width of its parent minus `padding`.
- The `height` of an element is calculated by the content's `height`.
- The `width` of an element is calculated by the content's `width`.
- By default, `padding` and `border` are not part of the `width` and `height` of an element.

## box-sizing: border-box

By default, elements have `box-sizing: content-box` applied, and only the content size is being accounted for.

`box-sizing: border-box` changes how the `width` and `height` of elements are being calculated, `border` and `padding` are also being included in the calculation.

- The `height` of an element is now calculated by the content's `height` + vertical `padding` + vertical `border` width.
- The `width` of an element is now calculated by the content's `width` + horizontal `padding` + horizontal `border` width.