---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "AOP"
category: spring
---

> AOP is a programming paradigm that aims to **increase modularity** by allowing the **separation** of cross-cutting **concerns**. It does this by adding additional behavior to existing code without modifying the code itself.
> 

# Concepts

## Business Object

```java
public class SampleAdder {
	public int add(int a, int b) {
		return a + b;
	}
}
```

## Aspect

An aspect is a **modularization of a concern** that cuts across **multiple classes**. Unified logging can be an example of such cross-cutting concern.

```java
public class AdderAfterReturnAspect {
    private Logger logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger(this.getClass());
    public void afterReturn(Object returnValue) throws Throwable {
        logger.info("value return was {}",  returnValue);
    }
}
```

## JointPoint

A *Joinpoint* is a point during the **execution of a program**, such as the execution of a method or the handling of an exception.

## **Pointcut**

A *Pointcut* is a predicate that helps **match an *Advice*** to be **applied by an *Aspect*** at a **particular *JoinPoint***.

We often associate the *Advice* with a *Pointcut* expression, and it runs at any *Joinpoint* matched by the *Pointcut*.

## **Advice**

An *Advice* is an **action taken by an aspect** at a particular *Joinpoint*. 

1. **Before:** These types of advices execute before the joinpoint methods and are configured using `@Before` ****annotation mark.
2. **After returning:** These types of advices execute after the joinpoint methods **completes executing normally** and are configured using `@AfterReturning` annotation mark.
3. **After throwing:**  These types of advices execute only if joinpoint method **exits** by throwing an **exception** and are configured using `@AfterThrowing` annotation mark.
4. **After (finally):** These types of advices execute after a joinpoint method, **regardless** of the method’s exit **whether normally** or exceptional return and are configured using `@After` annotation mark.
5. **Around:** These types of advices execute **before and after** a joinpoint and are configured using `@Around` annotation mark.

## Configuration

```xml
<bean id="sampleAdder" class="org.baeldung.logger.SampleAdder" />
<bean id="doAfterReturningAspect" 
  class="org.baeldung.logger.AdderAfterReturnAspect" />
<aop:config>
    <aop:aspect id="aspects" ref="doAfterReturningAspect">
       <aop:pointcut id="pointCutAfterReturning" expression=
         "execution(* org.baeldung.logger.SampleAdder+.*(..))"/>
       <aop:after-returning method="afterReturn"
         returning="returnValue" pointcut-ref="pointCutAfterReturning"/>
    </aop:aspect>
</aop:config>
```

- We defined a simple bean called `simpleAdder`*,* which represents an instance of a **Business Object**.
- We created an instance of an **Aspect** called `AdderAfterReturnAspect`.
- Within the `config` tag, we define the class that represents an **aspect**. Then we give it a reference of `doAfterReturningAspect`*,* an aspect bean that we created.
- Next we define a **Pointcut** using the `pointcut` tag. The pointcut used in the example above is `execution(* org.baeldung.logger.SampleAdder+.*(..))`*,* which means apply an advice on **any method within the `SampleAdder` class** that accepts any number of arguments and returns any value type.
- Then we define which **advice** we want to apply. In the above example, we applied the `after-returning` advice. We defined this in our Aspect `AdderAfterReturnAspect` by executing the `afterReturn` method that we defined using the attribute method.