---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "Networks"
category: distributed basic
---

# Performance

- **Latency** - how long time does it take to send an empty message?(usually one way unless it tells you round trip)
- **Transfer rate** - what is the rate at which we can send data?

## Message size

The packet delivery time or latency is the time from when the first
bit leaves the transmitter until the last is received.

<aside>
💡 Packet delivery time = Transmission time + Propagation delay

</aside>

Transmission time = Packet size / Bit rate
Propagation time = Distance / propagation speed

# Multi-Layered Network Architecture

The seven-layer OSI (Open System Interconnect) model
The IP networking stack includes 5 layers:

- Application (FTP, HTTP)
- Transport (TCP, UDP)
- Network (IP)
- Datalink (Ethernet frames)
- Physical (e.g. Ethernet, FDDI)

> **Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI)** is a standard for data transmission in a local area network. It uses optical fiber as its standard underlying physical medium.
> 

## Communication layers

- ***Application:*** the end product
- ***Presentation:*** encoding of information, serialization, marshaling
- ***Session:*** security, authentication, initialization
- ***Transport:*** messages, streams, reliability, flow control
- ***Network:*** addressing of nodes in a network, routing, switching
- ***Data link:*** point to point deliver of frames, medium access, link control
- ***Physical layer:*** bits to analog signals, electrical, optical, radio ...

# Routing

Two approaches:

- **Distance vector**: send routing table to neighbors, RIP, BGP
- **Link state**: tell everyone about your direct links, OSPF

# Socket

> ***A socket*** is the programmer’s abstraction of the network layer.

- an endpoint of a virtual network connection;
- identified by an IP address & port number, and a transport protocol (TCP, UDP, ...)
    - Datagram sockets for messages (UDP)
    - Stream sockets for duplex byte streams (TCP)

## **Stream Socket**

A TCP socket for stream-based communication

- Server
    - Creates a listening socket bound to a port (could be in several steps: create, bind, listen)
    - Accepts an incoming connection request and creates a communication socket for reading/writing a byte stream.
- Client
    - Creates a communication socket and connects it to a server identified by an IP address and a port.
    - Reads/writes from a socket.

## **Datagram socket**

- Server
    - Create a message socket and bind it to a port.
    - Receive an incoming message (message contains a source IP address and port number).
- Client
    - Create a message socket bound to a source port.
    - Create a message and give it a destination address and port number.
    - Send the message.