---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "basic"
category: erlang
---

# Data structures

- Literals
    - atoms: foo, bar…
    - numbers: 123, 1.23…
    - bool: true, false
- Compound structures
    - tuples: {foo, 12, {bar, zot}}
    - listis: [], [1, 2, foo, bar]

# Variables

- lexically scoped
- implicit scoping - the procedure definition
- untyped - assigned a value when introduced
- syntax: X, Foo, BarZot, _anything

# No circular structures

> circular data structures: the last element is a pointer to the first.
> 

# Concurrency

Concurrency is explicitly controlled by creation (spawning) of processes.
A process is when created, given a function to evaluate. no one cares about the result.
**Sending and receiving messages is the only way to communicate** with a process.
no shared state

# Registration

A node registers associate names to process identifiers.

```erlang
register(alarm_process, Pid)
```

Knowing the registered name of a process you can look-up the process identifier.

*The register is a shared data structure!*

## Node

Erlang nodes (an Erlang virtual machine) can be connected in a group .
Each node has a unique name.
Processes in one node can send messages to and receive messages from processes in other nodes using the same language constructs.

# Failure detection

- a process can monitor another process
- if the process dies a messages is placed in the message queue
- the message will indicate if the termination was normal or
abnormal or ..... if the communication was lost

# Atomic termination

- A process can link to another process, if the process dies with an
exception the linked process will die with the same exception.
- Processes that depend on each other are often linked together, if
one dies they all die.