---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "Keyword"
category: javascript
---

# `this`

`this` is a property of an execution context.

1. If the `new` keyword is used when calling the function, `this` inside the function is a **brand new object**.
2. If `apply`, `call`, or `bind` are used to call/create a function, `this` inside the function is the object that is **passed in as the argument**.
3. If a function is called as a method, such as `obj.method()` - `this` is the **object** that the function is a property of.
4. If a function is invoked as a free function invocation, meaning it was invoked without any of the conditions present above, `this` is the **global object**. In a browser, it is the `window` object. If in strict mode, `this` will be `undefined` instead of the global object.
5. If multiple of the above rules apply, the rule that is **higher wins** and will set the `this` value.

# `null`, `undefined`, undeclared

- Undeclared variables are created when you assign a value to an identifier that is **not previously created** using `var`, `let` or `const`.
- A variable that is `undefined` is a variable that has been **declared**, but **not assigned** a value.
- A variable that is `null` will have been **explicitly assigned** to the `null` value. It represents no value and is different from `undefined` in the sense that it has been explicitly assigned.

# Conditional(ternary) operator

```jsx
function getFee(isMember) {
  return (isMember ? '$2.00' : '$10.00');
}

console.log(getFee(true));
// Expected output: "$2.00"

console.log(getFee(false));
// Expected output: "$10.00"

console.log(getFee(null));
// Expected output: "$10.00"
```

# use strict

> A statement used to enable strict mode to entire scripts or individual functions.
> 

## Advantages

- **Impossible** to **accidentally** create **global** variables.
- Make assignments which would otherwise silently fail to throw an **exception**.
- Delete **undeletable** properties throw an exception.
- Require function parameter names be **unique**.
- `this` is **undefined** in the global context.

## Disadvantages

- **Missing features** some developers might be used to.
- **No more access** to `function.caller` and `function.arguments`.
- Concatenation of scripts written in **different strict modes** might cause issues.