---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "Object"
category: javascript
---

<aside>
💡 Data Type: String, Number, Boolean, Null, Undefined, Symbol(unique value)

</aside>
<br>
# host object Vs native object

- Native objects are objects that are part of the **JavaScript language defined**, such as `String`,  `Math`,  `RegExp`,  `Object`,  `Function`, etc.
- Host objects are provided by the runtime **environment** (browser or Node), such as `window`, `XMLHTTPRequest`, etc.

# extend built-in JS object

Extending a built-in/native JavaScript object means adding properties/functions to its `prototype`. Imagine your code uses a few libraries that **both extend** the `Array.prototype` by adding the same `contains` method, the implementations will overwrite each other and your code will break if the behavior of these two methods is not the same.

# immutable object

## **Object Constant Properties**

By combining `writable: false` and `configurable: false`, you can essentially create a **constant** (cannot be changed, redefined or deleted) as an object property.

```jsx
let myObject = {};
Object.defineProperty(myObject, 'number', {
  value: 42,
  writable: false,
  configurable: false,
});
console.log(myObject.number); // 42
myObject.number = 43;
console.log(myObject.number); // 42
```

## **Prevent Extensions**

If you want to **prevent** an object from **having new properties** added to it, but otherwise leave the rest of the object's properties alone, call `Object.preventExtensions()`

```jsx
var myObject = {
  a: 2,
};

Object.preventExtensions(myObject);

myObject.b = 3;
myObject.b; // undefined
```

## Seal

`Object.seal()` creates a sealed object, which means it takes an existing object and essentially calls `Object.preventExtensions()` on it, but also marks all its existing properties as `configurable: false`.

So, not only can you **not add** any more properties, but you also **cannot reconfigure** or delete any existing properties (though you can still modify their values).

## **Freeze**

`Object.freeze()` creates a frozen object, which means it takes an existing object and essentially calls `Object.seal()` on it, but it also marks all "data accessor" properties as `writable:false`, so that their values cannot be changed.

This approach is the **highest level** of immutability that you can attain for an object itself, as it **prevents any changes** to the object or to any of its direct properties.

## Advantages

- Programs with immutable objects are less complicated to think about, since you **don't need to worry** about how an object may **evolve** over time.
- Defensive copies are no longer necessary when immutable objects are **returning from or passed** to functions.
- Easy sharing via references - **One copy** of an object is just as good as another, so you can cache objects or **reuse the same object** multiple times.
- **Thread-safe** - Immutable objects can be safely used between threads in a multi-threaded environment since there is no risk of them being modified in other concurrently running threads.

## Disandvantages

- **Naive implementations** of immutable data structures and its operations can result in extremely **poor performance** because new objects are created each time. It is recommended to use **libraries** for efficient immutable data structures and operations that leverage on structural sharing.
- **Allocation** (and deallocation) of many small objects **rather than modifying** existing ones can cause a **performance impact**. The complexity of either the allocator or the garbage collector usually depends on the number of objects on the heap.
- **Cyclic** data structures such as graphs are **difficult to build**. If you have two objects which can't be modified after initialization, how can you get them to **point to each other?**

# destruct an object or an array

## Array

```jsx
// Variable assignment.
const foo = ['one', 'two', 'three'];

const [one, two, three] = foo;
console.log(one); // "one"
console.log(two); // "two"
console.log(three); // "three"

// Swapping variables
let a = 1;
let b = 3;

[a, b] = [b, a];
console.log(a); // 3
console.log(b); // 1
```

## Object

```jsx
// Variable assignment.
const o = {p: 42, q: true};
const {p, q} = o;

console.log(p); // 42
console.log(q); // true
```