---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "Layout"
category: css
---

# Flex Layout

## **The two axes of flexbox**

The **main axis** and the **cross axis**. The main axis is defined by the `flex-direction` property, and the cross axis runs perpendicular to it.


## **Multi-line flex containers with flex-wrap**

To cause wrapping behavior add the property `flex-wrap` with a value of `wrap`. Now, should your items be too large to all display in one line, they will wrap onto **another line**. Set it to `nowrap`, and they will instead **shrink** to **fit** the container. Using `nowrap` would cause an **overflow** if the items were not able to shrink, or could not shrink small enough to fit.

## **The flex-flow shorthand**

You can combine the two properties `flex-direction` and `flex-wrap` into the `flex-flow` shorthand. The first value specified is `flex-direction`
 and the second value is `flex-wrap`.

```css
.box {
        display: flex;
        flex-flow: row wrap;
      }
```

# Grid Layout

We define rows and columns on our grid with the `grid-template-rows`  and `grid-template-columns` properties.

## **The fr unit**

Grid also introduces an additional length unit to help us create flexible grid tracks. The new `fr` unit represents a fraction of the available space in the grid container. Tracks **grow and shrink** according to the available space.

## **Implicit and explicit grids**

Use `grid-auto-rows` to ensure that tracks created in the implicit grid are 200 pixels tall.

```css
.wrapper {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(3, 1fr);
  grid-auto-rows: 200px;
}
```