---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "Syntax"
category: vue
---

# v-for

## key

In order to track each node’s identity, and thus **reuse and reorder** existing elements, you need to provide a unique `key` attribute for each item with in `v-for` iteration. An ideal value for key would be the unique id of each item.

```jsx
<ul>
        <li v-for="item in letters" :key="item">{{item}}</li>
</ul>
```

When key is not added, the rendering will be replaced **in order**. If you add key, you will directly place it in the **specified position**, and improve efficiency.


# v-model

## modifiers

**1. lazy:** By default, v-model syncs the input with the data after each input event. You can add the lazy modifier to instead sync **after change events**.

```html
<!-- synced after "change" instead of "input" -->
<input v-model.lazy="msg" >
```

**2. number:** If you want user input to be automatically **typecast as a number**, you can add the number modifier to your v-model. Even with type="number", the value of HTML input elements always returns a string. So, this typecast modifier is required.

```html
<input v-model.number="age" type="number">
```

**3. trim:** If you want whitespace from user input to be **trimmed automatically**, you can add the trim modifier to your v-model.

```html
<input v-model.trim="msg">
```

# custom directive

Custom Directives are tiny commands that you can attach to DOM elements. They are **prefixed with v-** to let the library know you're using a special bit of markup and to keep syntax consistent. They are typically useful if you need low-level access to an HTML element to control a bit of behavior.

```jsx
// Register a global custom directive called `v-focus`
Vue.directive('focus', {
  // When the bound element is inserted into the DOM...
  inserted: function (el) {
    // Focus the element
    el.focus()
  }
})

<input v-focus>
```

## hook functions

1. **bind**: This occurs once the directive is attached to the element.
2. **inserted**: This hook occurs once the element is inserted into the parent DOM.
3. **update**: This hook is called when the element updates, but children haven't been updated yet.
4. **componentUpdated**: This hook is called once the component and the children have been updated.
5. **unbind**: This hook is called only once when the directive is removed.