---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "Hook"
category: react
---

Hooks are a new feature in React that allows us to **manage state and side effects** in functional components. Hooks are named functions that start with the word use and allow us to reuse stateful logic across components without having to write a class component. 

> Some common **side effects include**: fetching data from a server, subscribing to a data stream, logging values to the console, interval timers, and directly interacting with the DOM.
> 

Hooks make our code more reusable, easier to understand, and easier to test.

# Rules

1. Only call Hooks from React **function** components.
2. Only call Hooks at the **top level**, to be sure that Hooks are called in the same order each time a component renders.

<br>
# State Hook

`initialState` is an **optional** value that can be used to **set the value** of `currentState` for the first render. The `stateSetter`
 function is used to **update** the value of `currentState`
 and rerender our component with the next state value.

```jsx
const [currentState, stateSetter] = useState(initialState);
```
<br>
# Effect Hook

We call this Hook at the top level of a React function definition to perform a side effect. The callback function that we pass as the first argument of `useEffect()` is where we write whatever JavaScript code that we’d like React to **call after each render**.

```jsx
useEffect(() => {
    document.title = `You clicked ${count} times`;
  }, [count]);
```
<br>
## Cleanup Functions

If the effect does anything that needs to be cleaned up to prevent memory leaks, then the effect **returns** a cleanup function. The Effect Hook will call this cleanup function **before calling the effect** again as well as when the **component is being unmounted** from the DOM.

```jsx
useEffect(() => {
  document.addEventListener('keydown', handleKeydown);
  return () => document.removeEventListener('keydown', handleKeydown);
});
```

## Dependency Array

By default, with no dependency array provided, our effect is called after **every render**. An **empty** dependency array signals that our effect **never** needs to be **re-run**. A **non-empty** dependency array signals to the Effect Hook that it only needs to call our effect again when the value of **one of the listed dependencies has changed**.

```jsx
useEffect(() => {
 alert('called after every render');
});
 
useEffect(() => {
 alert('called after first render');
}, []);
 
useEffect(() => {
 alert('called when value of `endpoint` or `id` changes');
}, [endpoint, id]);
```