---
layout: post
section-type: post
has-comments: true
title: "JNI"
category: java
---

## Java Native Interface

Once we write and compile Java code, the result of this process is platform-independent **bytecode**. However, sometimes we do actually need to use code that's **natively-compiled** for a **specific** architecture like `C/C++`.

## Libs

When making a native executable program, we can choose to use static or shared libs:

- **Static libs** – all library binaries will be included as **part** **of our executable** during the linking process. Thus, we won't need the libs anymore, but it'll increase the size of our executable file.
- **Shared libs** – the final executable only has **references to the libs**, not the code itself. It requires that the environment in which we run our executable has access to all the files of the libs used by our program.

The **latter** is what makes sense for JNI as we can't mix bytecode and natively compiled code into the same binary file.

```java
private native void aNativeMethod();
```

With the main difference that instead of being implemented by another Java class, native method will be **implemented in a separated native shared library**.

A **table with pointers** in memory to the implementation of all of our native methods will be **constructed** so they can be called from our Java code.

## Example

### Create Java Class

```java
package com.baeldung.jni;

public class HelloWorldJNI {

    static {
        System.loadLibrary("native");
    }
    
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        new HelloWorldJNI().sayHello();
    }

    // Declare a native method sayHello() that receives no arguments and returns void
    private native void sayHello();
}
```

### Implement a Method in C++

Within C++ the definition and the implementation are usually stored in ***.h*** and ***.cpp*** files respectively.

1. To create the **definition of the method**, we have to use the *-h* flag of the Java compiler:
    
    ```powershell
    javac -h . HelloWorldJNI.java
    ```
    
    This will generate a `com_baeldung_jni_HelloWorldJNI.h` file with all the native methods included in the class passed as a parameter:
    
    ```cpp
    JNIEXPORT void JNICALLJava_com_baeldung_jni_HelloWorldJNI_sayHello(JNIEnv *, jobject);
    ```
    
2. Now, we have to create a new ***.cpp*** file for the **implementation** of the `sayHello()`. 
    
    ```cpp
    JNIEXPORT void JNICALL Java_com_baeldung_jni_HelloWorldJNI_sayHello
      (JNIEnv* env, jobject thisObject) {
        std::cout << "Hello from C++ !!" << std::endl;
    }
    ```
    

### Compile and Link

1. We use `G++` compiler to build our **shared library** from the C++ code and run it.
    
    MacOS version:
    
    ```powershell
    g++ -c -fPIC -I${JAVA_HOME}/include -I${JAVA_HOME}/include/darwin com_baeldung_jni_HelloWorldJNI.cpp -o com_baeldung_jni_HelloWorldJNI.o
    ```
    
    Once we have the code compiled into `com_baeldung_jni_HelloWorldJNI.o`, we have to include it in **a new shared library**. 
    
2. Whatever we decide to **name** the shared library is the **argument** passed into the method `System.loadLibrary`**.** We named ours “native”, and we'll load it when running our Java code.
3. The `G++` linker then **links** the `C++` object files into our bridged **library**.
    
    MacOS version:
    
    ```powershell
    g++ -dynamiclib -o libnative.dylib com_baeldung_jni_HelloWorldJNI.o -lc
    ```
    
4. We can now **run our program** from the command line.
    
    We need to **add the full path** to the directory containing the **library** we've just generated**.** This way Java will know where to look for our native libs:
    
    ```powershell
    java -cp . -Djava.library.path=/NATIVE_SHARED_LIB_FOLDER com.baeldung.jni.HelloWorldJNI
    ```